Hey, Brian. Hey, YouTube.
Hey.
How's it going?
It's great. It's good to be back.
Yeah, definitely. And good to be back with the podcast.
It took us, had a week off, so let's do it.
Let's kick it off, huh?
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 478.
I am Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Brian Okken.
This episode is recorded on May 4th, 2026,
brought to you by us and all the things we're doing.
I'm sure we'll mention something during the show somehow.
I've got a few cool updates to discuss.
Cool.
Yeah.
If you want to connect with us on social media,
maybe submit a topic that you think we should pay attention to,
check us out on all the social medias.
You can find us on the show page, episode page.
Pretty much everyone has a link to all the things there.
Sign up for the newsletter.
It adds way more than just show notes or, hey, we published an episode.
It's got a bunch of cool extra information that we put in there.
So check that out.
And with that, Brian, I think we should get started.
What's your first topic?
I am going to talk about, let's see, I'll pop over here.
I'm going to talk about Profiling Explorer.
So this is a, Profiling Explorer is a tool from Adam Johnson of lots of things Django and Git related fame.
So Adam, so how did I see this?
i don't know yeah oh yeah he had a um a blog article that he released last month that somehow
i just found out i read today introducing prof profiling explorer um actually i picked it up
yesterday but anyway so this is this is kind of fun this is uh says i've made it another package
wait uh anyway um so what do we have here we have a way to uh profile we are we have lots of ways to
profile python python code but this is um this takes like the output of the profiler the c profiler
and um and pops it into a table that you can interact with so this lovely table that's um
that also has dark mode he shows it in light mode but it also has dark mode uh it's got the all
the the normal stuff you'd think of for profiling you've got the cumulative time um the percentage
of your time in a certain place and the number of calls that get go to this place um or this thing
so but you can filter and the filter is kind of cool so you you can click on the calls or the
internal time or cumulative time column headers to sort by that which that's what where i usually
start is certain by the percentage of the time spent somewhere um anyway uh then you can also do
there's a search box so you can filter on like if you like even if you grab all of the time but
you're really looking at uh a sub component that you're working on you can just look at that and
see where it's small so like that's how often what love the time where i'm often uh grabbing looking
at the uh the profiling documentation is how do i filter down to just the thing i want to care about
And sometimes it's easier just to grab it all.
And then just using this, you could filter in exactly what you want.
Yeah, that's very cool.
Yeah.
And there's a hover features and caller and callees.
And I guess look through the article to figure out what this is all about.
But it looks really slick.
I haven't tried it yet, but I'm going to probably this week.
So it looks fun.
Yeah, that looks cool.
And profiling is certainly finding a needle in a haystack.
So all the UI, all the search you can get is very good.
Yeah, and there's like profiling often has like,
there's some people that like the flame graphs.
I've never gotten the flame graphs to work in my brain.
I just don't get them.
So something like a table works for me.
I like this.
Yeah, I really like the call hierarchy type thing.
Almost the call stack, but it's split if it takes different branches.
that you see in PyCharm and stuff.
That works for me.
But still, those things can be too noisy.
So very cool.
Yeah.
Nice.
Now let's bump over and talk about reverting
the incremental GC in Python.
I'm like, what?
So this is a, I don't know who,
I think just the core developers and steering council
as a group decided on this.
But the post is by Hugo Van Camande.
And it's just entitled reverting the incremental GC in Python 3.14 and 3.15, which is pretty wild.
And this is on discuss.python.org.
And so there's a bunch of back and forth here.
So let me give you some of the highlights, okay?
So Python 3.14 shipped with a new incremental garbage collector.
So I believe the way it worked previously is when a garbage collection happened.
And maybe I should point out why garbage collections happen.
so Python is a little weird in that it has two types of memory management both of them automatic
you don't worry about them but they're they're two ways of managing memory and they happen in
different scenarios okay so the primary by far way that memory management happens is by reference
counting you get a variable it has one reference you pass it to a function now it has two references
That function puts it into a list, but then returns.
It goes up to three and then back to two.
You throw away the list, and then the variable goes away.
Reference count hits zero, delete, right?
Reference counting works great.
It's super fast.
It's immediate, except it does not work great when you have a cycle, right?
I've got something, two objects that point to each other for some reason.
All of a sudden, their reference counts never hit zero.
memory goes through the roof you're toast so what we're talking about is the thing the garbage
collector that doesn't use reference counting but actually traverses all of the references
and then looks for those cycles that are abandoned but themselves never went to zero and collects it
okay so there was a new incremental garbage collector added that the way it worked now is
you would have different generations those generations would run that when it was time
collection, the entire app stopped garbage collection was checked this, these cycles
were checked. And then the app carried on to the incremental one tries to improve latency,
say like, Look, we don't have to stop the program entirely, we're going to do a little
bit of garbage collection, a little bit more running a little bit more garbage collection
and so on. Of course, the picture of garbage could change over that period, right? Anyway,
was added, but it turns out production reports started to come in for severe memory pressure.
Neil measured up to five times peak memory on pathological cyclic workloads, and cyclic is the
important part because that's actually where GC actually does anything. It actually makes, you know,
actually does the cleanup, and that pushed the core team and steering council to revert it.
Like it's in 3.14, but it's going to be taken out of 3.14.
And it's going to not actually make it to 3.15,
which is pretty extreme, I think, right?
Yeah.
Like it takes a lot to get something into Python,
but once it's in, it's rarely taken out.
All right, so this is actually the second time
the incremental GC has been pulled back.
It was reverted right before 3.13 first came out
because they were like, oh, is that quite ready?
And then it got into 3.14 without going through the PEP process.
So this is a bit of the tricky stuff.
However, the benefit was real.
So they were trying to reduce latency.
So with the incremental one, the max GC pause times for one example was 1 millisecond versus 26 milliseconds with the old one.
So that's great, except for it was just blowing up the memory usage of things that cared more about memory and less about latency.
And a lot of places we run Python care more about memory
than they care about very, very small pauses.
Think like APIs and web apps and anything that runs on a server or in the cloud.
Memory is probably the most expensive resource, right?
So that's not great.
So Hugo decided we're going to ship 3.14.5 early with the revert,
and Gregory Smith floated the idea of a 3.14.5 RC1.
a release candidate for a shipping version of python which would be interesting
okay and then tim peters jumped into thread doing a bunch of live forensics on windows running a toy
dq program that should cap at one gigabyte and it used up to 15.6 gigs on a 16 gig machine so
that's not great and this is really bad he discovered that gen zero collections effectively
never fired under this new collector.
That's the one that gets most of them,
and it's the cheapest to run,
so that's a big problem.
Anyway, this might sound bad,
but Tim points out that CPython
has had a chronic shortage of real-world GC benchmarks.
PyPerformance, the test suite that they run Python on
for performance considerations,
says it has basically no interesting cyclic workload.
loads, and users almost never share real data, so core devs keep flying blind.
And circling back to your previous topic, right, is Adam Johnson published a blog post
along the thread of a real memory leak in Django migration systems caused by the incremental GC
with where you have to call GC collect manually to fix it. All right, so it may or may not come
back for 3.16. If it does, it was going to be restarted through the PEP process. So
a lot going on here.
That's crazy, right?
Well, yeah, but I also hope that,
I mean, Tim's comment is,
like, we kind of flew past it,
but it's really important
that the cyclic workload,
having some of those in a benchmark is important,
but if you can come up with a pathological way
where it doesn't work as well,
It shouldn't crash.
It shouldn't be like, even an incremental should eventually go,
you know what, we need to shut down and clean things up if necessary, I think.
But we also need to have a benchmark that's more realistic.
And it's hard to tell what realistic is because Python's being used for everything
from particle physics to web pages.
So who knows?
I have a suggestion.
for them. I agree with you. I have a suggestion. One of the areas
this shows up very often is in ORMs.
Oh, yeah. So imagine I've got a user
and maybe a course
and then a user activity.
So if I go run a query, a database for all those things in ORM,
maybe the user activity has a user ID, but it also has a
reverse lazy loaded
back to the user itself
and back to the course itself.
But the user's holding on to their activity
because they've got a list of activities
which was also lazy
loaded.
Like tell SQLAlchemy or something, we're going to do eager loading
and all these things. It does create tons of cycles
just by doing database queries.
I've seen that kind of stuff
where the GC makes a difference on
my web apps that actually do a lot of database
things.
Maybe they could come up with a real interesting web app database query sort of example,
and just put a static SQLite database that's in there and integrate that.
I mean, I'm sure there's a hesitancy to say, well, the way you run PyPerformance
is you're going to fire up this database and this Redis queue,
and then you're going to like, you know, like the infrastructure doesn't make any sense,
but you could do it with SQLite.
I think you could come up with some interesting, useful examples
that have tons of data because just fill the database, you know.
yeah
anyway
I think it's worth considering
it is worth considering
oh I gotta hop over to my next topic
speaking of discussion
so this is just
I guess I'm just like
passing along a discussion
I was amused to read about
so this is
a few
it changed today
yesterday the topic changed
So I was surprised to find out that Microsoft and VS Code enabled AI co-author by default.
So, and I'm like, what, really?
So I read a little bit more about this.
And really it's, so you can do Git commits and stuff that have whether or not you've, you know, whether or not AI contributed to the code.
And instead, you used to be able to just like, it used to be only if like Git or your AI is actually committing.
But, you know, Copilot wants to get credit if they're doing a lot of work, I guess.
I don't know.
But so there's a flag that you can set that's the git.addaicoauthor configuration.
And it was started with off, and they changed it to default of all.
And it isn't all the time, but if there's something in here that tries to detect whether or not you used any of the code was contributed by an AI workflow or anything.
And I'm not sure about all the details, but people freaked out, basically.
Because, like, I was like, even if I run a copilot to try to figure out something, I may have rejected everything or something.
Or maybe my code looks like something that, I don't know, how is it detected?
I'm not sure.
And I don't think that's right.
Basically, I just don't think it's right.
Well, I was about to talk about that.
And then I noticed that I was reading the comments this morning and found out that there was a follow-up.
And the follow-up was just yesterday.
Changed the default back to off.
So, and then it devolved.
They closed the comments.
Even in one day, they closed the comments
because basically the comments turned into,
why are you even using VS Code?
You should use VI or, you know, Emacs
or what are the others, some of the others and stuff.
So, anyway.
I use a lot of editors.
Not a lot.
A couple.
But VS Code is one of them.
And I think the main takeaway from this is I don't trust them.
I'm going to go in my settings and go ahead and whatever this.
No, I can't find it.
The setting was like whatever.
Oh, here it is.
The add AI co-author.
I'm going to just go ahead and set that off in my settings file
because I don't trust them to turn it back on later.
Anyway, I think this is crazy.
First of all, let me defend the people who say VS Code
where folks are saying you should use Vim or Emacs.
I'm not...
I feel like a lot of those editors
encourage bad design practices, right?
Whereas proper IDE-like things
are a little bit better. So I think that that's fair. I don't think they should take that personally.
But this AI co-author stuff is just a...
So that was kind of put the defense up before we started hacking on them.
So I think... This is the first time hearing this, Brian. This is garbage.
Now, I haven't noticed this because I don't use Copilot
because I have more respect
for my work time and just use Claude Code.
in some kind of VS environment with the extension, to be clear.
And I also hate it if Claude does it.
But every now and then Claude does it, and it drives me crazy.
If I ask it for a commit message, it'll sometimes give me a bunch of stuff
and then co-authored by Claude Code,
and it'll like at mention their GitHub username or whatever
and like delete, delete, delete, delete,
get the thing out of there.
I've never seen this.
So where does it show up?
Does it like behind the scenes or does it show up?
The most common place I've seen it is in pull requests,
but I've also seen it in commit messages.
So let's just say it's a pull request, okay?
So you might go, I've not used.
Is it in the message though?
Yes, yes.
So I've not used it co-author,
like a co-pilot, like I just said,
but I've gone to Claude and I've said,
hey, there's a bunch of stuff going on here,
and I kind of forgot all the details that changed.
Wouldn't it be a little more thorough if I said,
hey, Claude, look at all the pending changes on this branch
since I branched it, and give me a nice summary
and overview of actually what's changed
instead of the stuff that I just intended to change,
maybe something else.
Maybe I ran the linter, and it changed a bunch of stuff,
but when I really only changed one line,
but I would like to talk about both, whatever, something like that.
It will say, here's the title, here's the description that you put,
and it'll say all of it's describing,
and the bottom it'll have a last single sentence paragraph
that says co-authored by Claude Code at Anthropic or at Claude
or something like that.
That's lame.
I'm like, screw this.
So then I'll delete that, which is fine,
but you can also just say, Claude, create a pull request on GitHub for me,
and it'll do that beautifully.
But you know what shows up at the bottom of that pull request description?
co-authored by Claude.
So Claude doesn't do as often,
but it sounds like Microsoft has gone absolutely bonkers
over AI-ing everything,
and I think that is a huge mistake.
I think they have 40 different products named Copilot
that are actually different things,
like in Office 365 Copilot,
Windows Copilot,
Copilot on GitHub,
Copilot and VS Code.
There was a mandate that everybody, a few years ago, 2023 or something like that,
every team that builds something at Microsoft needs to have some form of AI in it.
And those were all independent projects and initiatives.
And the adoption isn't that great.
And so this to me feels like a poor attempt, a bad attempt,
at kind of trying to growth hacking,
co-pilot back into the conversation, right?
Yeah, maybe.
Yeah, think of like early days of Hotmail,
which is completely forgotten,
but one of it's really,
the things that was kind of a secret to its success,
this is common now, but it wasn't then,
is every email you sent was sent by Hotmail.
Get your own one gigabyte free web email.
And every single email had a link back to it.
and people go, oh, you can have web email?
That's cool.
And I feel like it's that.
Social media stuff, too.
People would be like, this post written on Mona on iPhone
or something like that.
Yes, yes, exactly.
Yeah, there's a lot of that.
So I think it's got a strong ick factor.
I just checked my default VS Code,
which I don't know whatever it was,
but it had this on, and so I just turned it off.
And I'm going to go do a thorough cleansing.
But I think it's a tree falls in the forest,
but no one's there's a here sort of example for me because like i don't use copilot so if i did it
would put the marking on the co the co um attribution on it but i'm not gonna use it so
it's not a problem still see i actually don't get that the copilot hate because i i'm using it but
but I've been using it from the start.
And it's just like mostly code completion.
And you can open a window to OpenAI chat if you want.
But whatever settings I have are not intrusive.
They were intrusive for a while, and I did something,
and they're not that bad anymore.
And the suggested comments don't get in the way.
And I appreciate it.
And I do use VS Code, but I also use Vim mode.
So it's basically a big wrapper around Vim as far as I'm using it.
The other thing I really like about it is the integration with Git
so that I can find out all the stuff I've changed and do diffs easy and stuff.
So I do like it.
And also, there's a lot of people using Cursor,
and you can't hate on VS Code and like Cursor
because they're the same thing.
They're not exactly the same thing, but it's a fork.
Anyway.
100%.
I turn off the autocomplete for all those tools.
I don't like them.
My view into this world is just the agents.
All right.
You know, it's been...
Let's move on to the next topic, Brian.
It's been...
You wouldn't know it.
We had literally a heat advisory.
It was almost 90 degrees yesterday.
It was terrible.
Boy, was it freezing in Django land.
Let me tell you.
So I want to talk about something called Django Freeze.
And I think this is a super cool project.
It doesn't have very much attention.
It's only got 117 stars and 16 forks.
It's the kind of project that's really low risk,
like really low risk, but has a ton of benefits.
So the idea with Django Freeze is I've written a Django app,
and I'm thinking about how do I deploy it.
Maybe it's driving its content from the database,
like it's got a e-commerce store,
and it's got here's all your categories,
and here's the products you're selling, and so on.
Those come out of the database,
but maybe they change infrequently or whatever.
So you could use Django Freeze to just convert a static HTML version of your site
and deploy that somewhere,
have all the categories, have all the products,
have all the little backlinks
and all that kind of things that you might have,
whatever your app does.
But the deployment and operation,
the DevOps side is static files,
which is incredible.
Oh, cool.
It's good for operational.
Like your static files can't go down
unless just your server doesn't work anymore.
There's very few things that can go wrong.
It's not like you're going to,
well, I ran out of memory,
or there is, I don't know,
like some kind of issue between the caching
and just all the issues you have running real websites.
Like with static sites, they're so delightful.
Just put them up.
As long as the server's online, things are good, you know?
And you can host them for free in many places.
So if you've got a Django site
and you think, really, it kind of could be a static site,
but I like to work in Django.
I don't want to work in Hugo or something like that
where it's foreign or weird.
Hugo is really weird, even though it is good.
You could just write in Python, write in your favorite web framework,
but then turn it into a static site.
And I really think this is a cool idea.
It's sort of a peer of Flask Freeze, I think is the name.
Yeah, I think it's Flask Freeze.
What do you think?
Cool, right?
Yeah.
One of the things I think one of the places where I'd probably,
that I'm actually thinking of using this, I'll try it out,
is like a SaaS, for instance.
You've got the actual application that needs to be Django or whatever.
Let's say you've written it in Django, and you want your sales site.
You've got two sites.
You've got the actual application, and then you have your sales site.
If they look really close, then the transition is really easy.
So you could have a lot of your blog content or whatever on the static side
that you're trying to hit lots of random traffic
and then flip over to your application
and the user won't notice that much of a difference
because it's the same look and stuff.
Yeah, that's a perfect use case.
Or like the docs for your SaaS.
Yeah.
User manual, all that stuff.
It can just all be static, static, static.
Yeah, that's pretty cool.
I'll give you one more example.
I talked to David Flood from the Harvard humanities enablement team, I guess is a simple way to put it.
And he and his team go around sort of like on internal consultants or whatever for different researchers who are not really programmers or web people
and help them set up websites, portals, data management,
data exploration, et cetera.
And one of the areas that he talked a lot about
is what happens if you create something like a Django site
or anything else as part of a grant,
a three-year research project,
but then the grant is over.
You're paying $100 a month to host the Django site,
but now who's going to pay for that, right?
You don't want to pay for it
because you don't have any grant money left,
but if you don't, it's going to go away,
which is a big hassle.
Yeah, that'd be cool to just be able to convert it to a static.
It's not going to update anymore,
and it can be something you can reference and stuff.
Yeah, exactly.
So you've got this project that needed a dynamic site for a long time,
but then all of a sudden it no longer is supported or whatever,
but you don't want it to vanish from the internet.
hit it with one of these, you know, convert to static sites.
I think it's a really cool idea.
Yeah, it is cool.
Yeah, indeed.
You know what else is cool?
Extras are cool.
I'll let you go next on the extras.
Okay.
I need, I like accidentally unshared, so I'll share it just in,
I'll be just a second, and here I go.
All right.
So this is, we were thinking about AI a lot.
I know a lot of you have kids out there, or maybe you are going to college or high school or something like that.
And if you are, thanks for listening.
That's awesome.
Anyway, I ran across this article this morning.
It's called Thinking Less, Trusting More, Gen AI's Impact on Students' Cognitive Habits.
And actually, this isn't an article.
This is an abstract from a study from Oregon State University.
And like actually the top, there's like an objective and a method and result at the top.
But it's rather, it's not too hard to decipher the results looking at this.
But it's still in like, you know, it's a scientific paper speak.
So if you pardon the flyby, the best way to read this is to go all the way down to the bottom.
Oh, not all the way to the references, but there's a conclusion.
And this is actually interesting.
I think it's really interesting about students using AI and stuff.
So I'll just read out that a little bit here.
If routine reliance on Gen AI during formative years, and I don't remember what formative years are, but whatever,
Changes students' willingness to engage in effortful thinking.
Many may enter professional life without having developed the intellectual habits that earlier generations developed through practice.
Yet this need not be inevitable.
Cognitive, the cognitive debt, anyway, basically, the use of AI and the way AI is designed,
like things like ChatGPT and stuff need to be modified so that,
uh,
learn both learning environments and gen AI systems are modified to preserve
human agency and support genuine complimentary,
complimentarity.
Uh,
I didn't know that was a word.
generally division of cognitive labor between both human and AI contributions
should be meaningful,
meaningful set up.
And so that neither is displaced. Basically you need to, and I, I,
I kind of agree. I think even when using a cope like Claude and stuff like that,
I think that you can get them to ask you, you can say, Hey,
do this task. And if you run into issues, ask me about it.
I think that should be the default. I think it should, it should default to,
even if, even if you don't want to get interrupted, just like, you know,
you want it to have like flow mode and just like get stuff done.
It should pull out points and say, Hey,
these are some of the decisions I made. could you review this spot,
this pot, this spot? and what do you think of that?
And we could change it, change it if necessary.
And I think there's minor tweaks that could be done with a lot of these
interfaces to keep people thinking. And this is about high school students,
or about students. I don't know what age of students it is,
but I think it's relevant for coders also,
because it's really easier for coders to slip into trusting the bots to let it happen.
And I am all for getting things done faster,
but we need to keep people thinking about their problems and thinking about stuff.
So anyway, that's my answer.
I have a couple thoughts.
So I totally agree that this is a very, very, very serious danger.
I just think back to myself.
if I had a magic box when I was working on a history paper
and I could just say, help me with this.
I really don't remember.
I don't want to read the 30-page paper.
I think it can seriously stunt your growth as a student.
And I honestly think one of the important skills in life
is just to learn to keep going.
You find a problem, you're like, oh, that's hard,
or I can't figure this out.
A huge skill is just learning to keep trying until you do figure it out.
And if you have a magic box that gives you the answer,
and especially if you're young, that's really, really rough.
You can use these things as really amazing tutors, though.
You can say, I saw you did this.
That's new to me.
Why did you do this?
Let's explore this idea.
But I really doubt many students are using that.
Once they get an answer, they're probably like, good.
yeah well and in like there's ways to you can like i said also you there's ways to use ai tools now
to um that work the way they should like one like in education you could say here's my rubric
um here's and it's on this um here's my ideas about what i think i should put but i i'm just
not sure which part of the paper i should put this information like the basically using it to be
i'm stuck just get me unstuck don't do everything for me but just get me unstuck um and those are
great ways to use this so anyway indeed indeed now final final thought before we move off this
really quick there's a lot of em dashes in this i'm pretty sure that this entire abstract was
written with ai or at least rewritten with i like just on that page there's three or four em dashes
which I'm not against the M-dash,
but that is such a new thing
that AI seemed to have brought into the mix.
Right, but there's what the Grammarly
has been used commonly for a long time.
And I don't think that Grammarly counts as an evil thing.
Yeah, I don't either.
But also, there's way more M-dashes
in research papers than there are normal papers.
That is true.
And honestly, that's probably how they got into AI.
But still.
Probably.
I'm still thinking.
I'm still thinking perhaps that.
I got a couple things.
Some of these are a little bit older.
It's 14 days ago because it came out right after we recorded our last episode.
And then we skipped a week.
So it's not that new.
But already this bothers me.
Just the first four words of this announcement bother me.
AI cloud company, Vercel.
Wait, no, this is a cloud company that hosts infrastructure,
but they probably wanted to raise more money,
so now they're an AI cloud company, not just a cloud company, whatever.
Let's just start from after that.
Vercel is breached after an employee grants an AI tool
unrestricted access to Google Workspace.
Hacker seeks $2 million for stolen data.
So some, I've got to go through it a little bit more,
But basically, someone was using Agentec AI and gave it access to the production Google Workspace, which stored a bunch of data and probably wikis and stuff like that.
And then somehow they installed something bad that then used the AI, which used that access.
I don't know exactly the details, but why do I bring it up?
If you're using Vercel, you might want to rotate your keys,
change your password, stuff like that.
The hacker is seeking the money, though.
Yes, because they stole the data from them,
and they'll say, I'm going to release it to the world
if you don't pay me.
It's like a ransomware sort of thing.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, got it.
Note that you bash.
Okay.
I mean, there's just another warning for everyone.
I'm like, you got to be really careful with your dev machines,
which are often for a lot of us also our personal computers.
You know, like the whole, what was the password manager?
Not one password, not Pitwarden.
LastPass.
LastPass got hacked, not because of an AI thing,
but because one of the devs had a home network,
which had a Plex server so they could stream their pirated stuff
stuff to their, just to watch, right?
But then they wanted to do that while they were out, while they were traveling.
So they put it on the internet.
It got hacked.
And then it laterally moved through their home network to get to their computer, which then
got all the API keys and on and on it goes.
Anyway, just another little warning.
And if you use Vercel, maybe a double warning.
All right.
That one's kind of sad.
I'll give you a good one, Brian.
Check this out.
This is very relevant.
So I went and I was just thinking,
I really want a better experience for people over at Talk Python,
and I'm doing a crazy amount of stuff with transcripts.
I'll talk about it next week probably,
but for weeks I've been working on making transcripts better,
more with the courses than with the podcast,
but still, it applies to both.
It would be really nice if there was a better playback experience on the web.
Imagine this.
You come to the website, Python Bytes or Talk Python, whatever.
We've got really nice search,
and I've talked about the work I've done on the Python Bytes search,
which I think is really cool,
some of the ways you can search and jump around.
But maybe you find something interesting from 200 episodes ago.
Maybe you could get that on your podcast player,
but you've got to scroll back.
Does your player cut off episodes older?
It's just not great.
You might just want to listen to it on the web, right?
Yeah.
So you search for it, you click, you start going, maybe you could have a better experience than just the default playback, you know, audio tag that for some reason browsers think doesn't deserve much love or interest.
They're crappy. They look like they're from, you know, real player in 95, but whatever.
So I went and I created a really nice playback experience where, let me just jump over.
I'll link to the blog post here.
Come in here.
It's got nice little access to all the pieces,
but it's got a player.
If you click it, it expands out with little Seek stuff around.
It shows the transcripts as it's playing,
like right alongside the player.
You can change the speed.
It's got hotkeys.
Isn't that slick?
Oh, yeah.
And thanks for doing the speed thing, too,
because I never listened at 1x.
Yeah, yeah.
So Python bytes go over here.
I've got the same deal.
I just didn't write a blog post about it because I did talk Python first,
but look at that.
Oh, very cool.
Isn't that nice?
So people out there listening, if you're like,
I'm just kind of exploring our content.
I mean, we've got a lot of years.
How many years?
What was our first episode?
Let me just look really quick, Brian.
What was our very first episode?
It was 2016.
that's 10 years of content yeah we've got a great search engine and transcripts on top of that and
so if you're exploring that you know just use the player i think it's really really cool
been doing this for 10 years almost i know damn you're old dude weird how like some people can
get old and others in the same time frame just don't right brian yeah well i guess uh so you'll
this is funny because if you're watching this you'll know it that i'm the one with gray hair not
uh michael so but you got more hair so i think it evens out so thank you pat says last pass
reminds me of as i was stumbled okay a couple more things real quick uh a combination stuff
and this last item i both want to give a little bit a little bit of something
sympathy to GitHub and then also kind of bash on him a little bit.
So GitHub has been having...
As we do, you know.
I think it's fair.
Isn't that balanced?
I think you just got to say if there's two sides,
you got to present them both equally.
But there's a little bit of nuance here.
So I don't know if you've noticed,
but GitHub has been a little janky lately.
And not in just the GitHub actions,
which have been taking a lot of heat,
but just uptime at all.
Like I couldn't search the other day,
a little while before then,
like issues were not accessible.
I didn't experience this,
but people had their pull requests just disappear.
Like how frustrating would that be to do some work,
submit a pull request and it just goes into the ether?
You're like, are you serious?
So here's the supportive angle.
They did this post over on the GitHub blog
called an update on GitHub availability.
they have a graph that says things are hard for us. We're trying. They're doing a couple of things.
I believe they're reworking GitHub from being a monolith into being a bunch of microservices.
And I usually hate on microservices, but something like GitHub with all these different moving parts
and different levels of traffic and load on them seems like you might, well, maybe we should just
scale up the issues bit like a ton, but not so much just listing the repos or whatever.
So apparently they're going through, they're like, oh, we need something like 10x more capacity
than we had a couple years ago. And during that time, they're like, actually, no, maybe 30x more.
So it's a lot. And if you look at the graphs, they're nothing but like nearly vertical in the
amount of traffic and new repos and commits. And one of the
main drivers of this is people, especially a lot of new people to
programming who are not programmers are like, Hey, Claude,
create me a project. Where do I save my project? Oh, you put it
on GitHub, you know what I mean? And so just the amount of traffic
amplified by AI to GitHub is over the top.
Alright, so that, you know, maybe if we could charge like 50, if
they charge like 50 cents a month, just something small, just
But anything, like a dime a month, a lot of that would go away.
That's really interesting.
I would totally pay a dime a month.
I think I'd pay $30 a month to get up.
I wouldn't mind paying $30 and $10.
$30.10 wouldn't make a difference.
Anyway, no, I think that's a very interesting point, actually.
Okay, so there's that.
This is GitHub's response.
Did you know that there's a missing GitHub status page?
Yes, there is.
If you go back to the previous one, somewhere did they talk about their uptime?
How could it exist if it's missing?
So is there a status?
Yeah, so if you go to GitHub status page, it says, oh, Git operations are up, up, up.
webhooks are up, up, up.
And it talks about like, it doesn't aggregate it, but it's like 99.5 sort of uptime.
But then there's another page, which ironically is hosted on GitHub.io.
I love it.
It's like its own thing.
And it basically does other types of checks.
And it's like, you know, 84% uptime.
That is actually pretty abysmal.
Yeah.
And it just has graphs.
And it actually breaks out pull requests and all these things.
And here you look and you see kind of similar numbers.
It's like the Git operations are this.
web hoax or this. But I think it says
if any of these are down,
then you don't call it up.
You know what I mean? Whereas the other one goes
if some of it is up, it's up.
Not all of it. I mean,
you don't like issues right now, do you?
I don't know exactly
the breakdown there, but I just thought this
missing GitHub status page was really interesting.
Yeah, they should do better.
I mean, I know that
a lot of us are using it for free,
but
also, we've paid
with all of our intellectual property.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, that's...
And attention, right?
The reason that there's not a mass exodus
to something new or shinier
is because this is where most of the people are.
I know there is something of an exodus,
but not a mass exodus, right?
Yeah.
You get benefits from being on GitHub.
Yeah, for sure.
Okay.
I think all of these conversations
about these AI things and stuff and others
perfectly lead into this joke.
This is probably one of my favorite jokes.
Can't wait.
At least of the year.
Have you looked at it yet?
No.
Okay, perfect.
Okay, so I found this on X.
I'm programming humor.
I guess it could also be on Reddit.
They broadcast that in multiple places.
So this is like two different perspectives from society.
And it's talking about Copilot, but it could be chat, GPT.
It could be Claude, whatever.
Friends outside of tech.
Lol, Copilot is dumb.
Friends in tech.
I just bought iodine tablets.
I have made an offer on land upstate.
My supplies of antibiotics and potable water are sufficient,
but I need to set up hydroponics to make it through the first few years.
Did that just perfectly sum it up?
It's like, this is a dumb thing.
Look, it made this thing longer.
you're like, I'm almost done stockpiling.
We're ready to build the bunker.
I know what is coming.
I can see it so bad.
Yeah.
I'm, I've just like, I've just, I know that I'm dependent on society.
If society collapses, just, I hope I'm one of the first to get hit.
Cause I don't want to live through an apocalypse.
I really don't either.
I'm not a survivalist.
So.
Stuck up on your iodine tablets in your potable water.
Oh, my God.
That's so bad.
So I've got a friend that, like, they've got, like, a group of friends that have a place, like, in southern Oregon that they know they can hole up in and stuff.
If anything happens.
And I said, oh, okay.
So do you make sure that you always have a full tank of gas so if anything happens you can make it there?
Oh, no.
well
how are you going to get there
are you going to walk to southern Oregon
anyway
so yeah good point
there's a lot of moving pieces
and the one you didn't see coming might be the one that takes you
I hope he doesn't listen to this podcast
but I hope everybody else does
yes exactly
well everyone
I hope your supplies are ready
and thank you for listening
thank you
thanks everybody
bye